# **Electric Power Consumption**
# **Base Plotting Examples**

# **CodeBook**

## Project Goal

The purpose of this project is to conduct Exploratory Data Analysis on the the “Individual household electric power consumption Data Set” from the UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository. 

## Study design and raw data processing

### Collection of the raw data

The Data contains measurements of electric power consumption in one household with a one-minute sampling rate over a period of almost 4 years. Different electrical quantities and some sub-metering values are available.

### The original raw data 

The raw data is available from "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/exdata%2Fdata%2Fhousehold_power_consumption.zip".

## Preprocessing the data

### Guide to use the 4 plotting scripts

With the help of the *4 plotting scripts* you can download and read the dataset and than create each plot.

To see the exact steps, please follow the comments and commands in the 4 scripts.

Some getting and cleaning data tasks realized in the 4 scripts are:

* Install and call the needed libraries
* Download the .zip data and save it into a folder named "dataset", than unzip it
* Read the data into a data.table object
* Filter the data by the two dates "2007-02-01" and "2007-02-02"
* Add the column Datetime concatenating the colum Date and Time together
* Add the column Weekday, extracting the day of the week from the column Datetime
* Generate the plot
* Save the plot to a PNG file and close the graphics device

## Variables

The final dataset generated by each of the plot scripts contains: *2880 rows* and *11 columns*.

### **Columns/Features**

There are *11 columns/variables* in the datatset.

The following descriptions of the 9 variables in the dataset are taken
from
the <a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Individual+household+electric+power+consumption">UCI
web site</a>:

<ol>
<li><b>Date</b>: Date in format dd/mm/yyyy </li>
<li><b>Time</b>: time in format hh:mm:ss </li>
<li><b>Global_active_power</b>: household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Global_reactive_power</b>: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Voltage</b>: minute-averaged voltage (in volt) </li>
<li><b>Global_intensity</b>: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere) </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_1</b>: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered). </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_2</b>: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light. </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_3</b>: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.</li>
</ol> 

Furthermore there are two columns calculated within each of the 4 plotting scripts:

<ol>
<li><b>Datetime</b>: Date in format "yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS"</li>
<li><b>Weekday</b>: The day of the week</li>
</ol>


### **Rows/Observations**

There are *2880 Rows/Observations* in the data. 

## Creating 4 plots

The overall goal here is simply to examine how household energy usage varies over a 2-day period in February, 2007. The task is to reconstruct the required 4 plots, all of which were constructed using the base plotting system.

The 4 R scripts plot1.R, plot2.R, plot3.R and plot4.R generate the 4 png files.